Since you're already running XFCE on the Azure VM, xrdp + xorgxrdp gets you a real RDP endpoint you can hit from a native Mac client instead of Guacamole.

On the VM (Ubuntu):

bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y xrdp xorgxrdp xfce4 xfce4-goodies
sudo adduser xrdp ssl-cert

Tell xrdp to launch XFCE for your user:

bash
echo "startxfce4" > ~/.xsession
chmod +x ~/.xsession
sudo systemctl enable --now xrdp

If you want it system-wide instead, edit /etc/xrdp/startwm.sh and replace the Xsession lines at the bottom with startxfce4.

Kill the polkit nag popups (colord/network-manager auth prompts every login):

bash
sudo tee /etc/polkit-1/localauthority/50-local.d/45-allow-colord.pkla >/dev/null <<'EOF'
[Allow Colord all Users]
Identity=unix-user:*
Action=org.freedesktop.color-manager.create-device;org.freedesktop.color-manager.create-profile;org.freedesktop.color-manager.delete-device;org.freedesktop.color-manager.delete-profile;org.freedesktop.color-manager.modify-device;org.freedesktop.color-manager.modify-profile
ResultAny=no
ResultInactive=no
ResultActive=yes
EOF
sudo systemctl restart xrdp

Don't open 3389 to the internet. Leave the NSG closed and tunnel over SSH:

bash
ssh -N -L 3390:localhost:3389 ricky@nsvmaz02

On the Mac: use Windows App (the renamed Microsoft Remote Desktop, free on the App Store) and add a PC pointing at localhost:3390. Jump Desktop works too and handles the tunnel natively if you'd rather not run the SSH command each time — it has built-in SSH gateway support under the connection's advanced settings.

Two gotchas worth knowing: xrdp and Guacamole can coexist fine, but if Guacamole is proxying VNC to the same X session you'll get conflicts — xorgxrdp spawns its own session, so keep them separate. And set the RDP resolution to match your external monitor before connecting; xrdp doesn't do dynamic resize well unless you're on a recent build with xorgxrdp 0.9.19+.

mp wjat I mmean If I'm getting my Mac repaired, I want to be able to contol my app like I contlrl muy unbuntio machin thorugh my ipad using windos app RDP client

Thought for 26s

Ah — you want an RDP server on the Mac so the iPad's Windows App can drive it. That one doesn't work, and the XFCE angle is a dead end for it.

Why: macOS has no RDP server, and nobody makes a good one. You can install XQuartz + XFCE + xrdp via Homebrew, but what you'd connect to is a bare X11 desktop running alongside macOS — no Finder, no Safari, no Xcode, none of your actual apps. Useless for what you're after. Windows App on iOS is RDP-only, so it can't reach a Mac at all.

What actually gets you the same experience:

You already own Jump Desktop, which is the right tool here. Install Jump Desktop Connect on the Mac (free companion app), sign into the same account on the iPad, and its Fluid protocol gives you near-RDP responsiveness — proper cursor handling, hardware keyboard, trackpad gestures, multi-monitor. Notably better than VNC over a slow link.

Free fallback: System Settings → General → Sharing → Screen Sharing on. Then connect from Jump Desktop or Screens on the iPad over VNC. Works fine on LAN, mushy over Starlink or LTE.

If you want the self-hosted route that matches your setup: RustDesk has a macOS host and iOS client, and you can point it at your own relay server rather than theirs.

Three gotchas that will bite you:

FileVault is the big one. After any reboot, the Mac sits at the pre-boot unlock screen with no network stack — no remote access until someone physically types the password. If nobody's home to do that, you're locked out until you are.

Headless resolution: lid closed with no external display, the Mac falls back to something like 1024×768. A $10 HDMI dummy plug fixes it, or leave a real monitor attached.

And the obvious one — while the Mac is physically at the Genius Bar, none of this reaches it. It's off, and likely wiped if they swap the logic board. So the repair-window plan is really the Azure VM plus whatever you can push to GitHub beforehand, not remote access to the Mac. Worth committing everything and confirming your Claude Code config and dotfiles are recoverable before you hand it over.

i jsut really want an RDP server for mac :)

F

Claude’s response was interrupted.

can I vibe code one?

Yes, and honestly it's a fun project — but let me be straight about the shape of the work before you sink a weekend into it.

The easy 60%: RDP's core is documented in MS-RDPBCGR. You can get a TLS listener up, complete the connection sequence, negotiate capabilities, and push raw bitmap updates with CGDisplayStream or ScreenCaptureKit. Input injection is CGEventCreate + CGEventPost. Windows App will connect and you'll see your desktop. That part is genuinely achievable with Claude Code in a few sessions.

The hard 40%: the codecs. Raw bitmaps over Starlink will be unusable — you need RemoteFX or, better, H.264 in an AVC444 wrapper (MS-RDPEGFX), and that spec is dense. Then there's the egfx channel state machine, clipboard redirection (MS-RDPECLIP), dynamic resize, and audio. This is where FreeRDP contributors spend years.

The shortcut that makes it tractable: don't write the protocol stack. FreeRDP ships libfreerdp-server and there's a sample mfreerdp-server — a macOS server implementation — that's been in the tree for over a decade, perpetually half-finished. Building on that means you're writing the macOS capture/input glue against a working protocol layer instead of implementing RDP from scratch. brew install freerdp gets you the libs; the server sample needs to be built from source.

Realistic outcome: a week of evenings gets you something that displays your desktop and takes input, adequate on LAN. Getting it smooth over cellular is a much longer road, and you'd be rebuilding what Jump Desktop's Fluid protocol already does well.

If you want to try it, the right first milestone is a listener that completes the RDP handshake and serves a single static bitmap. Once Windows App renders that, you know the plumbing works and everything after is optimization. Want me to sketch that scaffold?

what should I call it?

A few directions:

Fits your Noctusoft naming — Noctus Explorer already sets a pattern, so Noctus Remote or NoctusRDP slots right in. Boring but coherent across the portfolio.

Plays on the protocol — Cupertino Desk Protocol (CDP, cheeky riff on RDP's origin), Aqua Desktop, or MacRDP if you want zero ambiguity in a GitHub search.

Better, though — the naming convention in this space is a single letter prefix: xrdp, mstsc, mfreerdp. Following it gives you mrdpd or macrdpd, which reads as a real daemon to anyone who'd care. That's what I'd pick if you might open-source it.

Or lean into the origin story — you're building this because your screen cracked and you want in from an iPad. Lidless, Shattered, Backdoor Bar (Genius Bar joke), Understudy. Lidless is my favorite of these — it's short, it's an available name, and it describes exactly the headless-Mac case the thing exists for.

If it's going public, mrdpd. If it's yours, Lidless.